ighastar/src/Environments/README.md, before:

# Creating a Custom Environment for IGHAStar

## What is an environment?
The envrionment is effectively what provides the successor function, edge evaluation, heuristic, goal checking, and what the node data structure looks like.
For instance, in the example environments used here, the world is represented using 2D costmaps and elevation maps. 
However, the IGHA* algorithm in of itself does not care about the representation format used; the representation used is only relevant for getting successors and or evaluating edges.

This document explains how to create your own environment for use with the IGHAStar planner. To integrate with IGHAStar, your environment must implement a specific interface and define a compatible Node structure.

## Environment Interface Requirements

Your custom `Environment` class **must** provide the following methods and members:

### **Required Methods**

**Constructor**
  ```cpp
  Environment(const py::dict& config);
```
Initializes the environment using a
Python dictionary of configuration parameters.

**set_world**
  ```cpp
  void set_world(torch::Tensor world);
  ```
Loads the map or world representation from a PyTorch tensor.

**cleanup**
  ```cpp
  void cleanup();
  ```
  Frees any allocated resources (e.g., memory, CUDA buffers).

**create_Node**
  ```cpp
  std::shared_ptr<Node> create_Node(float *pose);
  ```
  Returns a new Node at the given pose (with no parent).

**distance**
  ```cpp
  float distance(float *pose, float *goal);
  ```
  Computes the distance between two poses (used for heuristics and goal checks).

**reached_goal_region**
  ```cpp
  bool reached_goal_region(std::shared_ptr<Node> v, std::shared_ptr<Node> goal);
  ```
  Returns true if node `v` is within the goal region of `goal`.

**heuristic**
  ```cpp
  float heuristic(float *pose, float *goal);
  ```
  Returns a heuristic estimate of the cost from `pose` to `goal`.

**check_validity**
  ```cpp
  void check_validity(float *start, float *goal, bool *result);
  ```
  Sets `result[0]` and `result[1]` to true if `start` and `goal` are valid, respectively.

**Succ**
  ```cpp
  std::vector<std::shared_ptr<Node>> Succ(std::shared_ptr<Node> node,
                                          std::shared_ptr<Node> goal);
  ```
  Returns a vector of successor nodes for a given node.

**convert_node_list_to_path_tensor**
  ```cpp
  torch::Tensor convert_node_list_to_path_tensor(std::vector<std::shared_ptr<Node>> node_list);
  ```
  Converts a list of nodes (the path) to a PyTorch tensor for output/visualization.

### **Required Members**
- `int max_level;` - The maximum number of resolution levels (used for multi-resolution search).

## Node Structure Requirements

Your environment must define a `Node` struct or class with the following members and methods:

### **Required Members**
- `float pose[n_dims];` // State vector (e.g., [x, y, ...])
- `float *intermediate_poses;` // (Optional) Intermediate states between parent and this node
- `float g, f;` // Cost-to-come and total cost
- `bool active;` // Whether the node is active in the search
- `int rank, level;` // Rank and resolution level
- `size_t hash;` // Hash value for fast lookup
- `std::vector<size_t> index;` // Multi-resolution indices
- `std::shared_ptr<Node> parent;` // Pointer to parent node

### **Required Methods**
- **Constructor**
  ```cpp
  Node(const float *pose_in, const float *intermediate_poses_,
       std::shared_ptr<Node> parent_in, float g_in,
       const float *resolution_, float *tolerance, int max_level,
       float division_factor, int timesteps);
  ```
  Initializes a node with the given state, parent, and other parameters.

- **Destructor**
  ```cpp
  ~Node();
  ```
  Frees any dynamically allocated memory (e.g., `intermediate_poses`).

## Node Comparison

You must also define a comparison functor for use in priority queues:

```cpp
struct NodePtrCompare {
    bool operator()(const std::shared_ptr<Node> &a,
                    const std::shared_ptr<Node> &b) const {
        return a->f > b->f; // min-heap: smaller f has higher priority
    }
```
};
```

## Example

See the files in this directory (e.g., `kinematic.h`, `kinodynamic.h`, `simple.h`) for concrete examples of how to implement these interfaces.

---

**Note:**
- All methods and members must match the signatures above for IGHAStar to work correctly.
- You may add additional methods or members as needed for your environment's logic.

Commit message:

Add map convention information to README and edit git clone instructions

ighastar/src/Environments/README.md, after:

# Creating a Custom Environment for IGHAStar

## What is an environment?
The envrionment is effectively what provides the successor function, edge evaluation, heuristic, goal checking, and what the node data structure looks like.
For instance, in the example environments used here, the world is represented using 2D costmaps and elevation maps. 
However, the IGHA* algorithm in of itself does not care about the representation format used; the representation used is only relevant for getting successors and or evaluating edges.

This document explains how to create your own environment for use with the IGHAStar planner. To integrate with IGHAStar, your environment must implement a specific interface and define a compatible Node structure.

## Quick note about example environment conventions:
The map convention used here is as follows:
Map origin (0, 0) is at the bottom left (if visualized using cv2.imshow, then top left).
X is East, Y is North. We use the [REP103](https://www.ros.org/reps/rep-0103.html) standard conventions.

For custom environments you can pick a convention of your choice.

## Environment Interface Requirements

Your custom `Environment` class **must** provide the following methods and members:

### **Required Methods**

**Constructor**
  ```cpp
  Environment(const py::dict& config);
```
Initializes the environment using a
Python dictionary of configuration parameters.

**set_world**
  ```cpp
  void set_world(torch::Tensor world);
  ```
Loads the map or world representation from a PyTorch tensor.

**cleanup**
  ```cpp
  void cleanup();
  ```
  Frees any allocated resources (e.g., memory, CUDA buffers).

**create_Node**
  ```cpp
  std::shared_ptr<Node> create_Node(float *pose);
  ```
  Returns a new Node at the given pose (with no parent).

**distance**
  ```cpp
  float distance(float *pose, float *goal);
  ```
  Computes the distance between two poses (used for heuristics and goal checks).

**reached_goal_region**
  ```cpp
  bool reached_goal_region(std::shared_ptr<Node> v, std::shared_ptr<Node> goal);
  ```
  Returns true if node `v` is within the goal region of `goal`.

**heuristic**
  ```cpp
  float heuristic(float *pose, float *goal);
  ```
  Returns a heuristic estimate of the cost from `pose` to `goal`.

**check_validity**
  ```cpp
  void check_validity(float *start, float *goal, bool *result);
  ```
  Sets `result[0]` and `result[1]` to true if `start` and `goal` are valid, respectively.

**Succ**
  ```cpp
  std::vector<std::shared_ptr<Node>> Succ(std::shared_ptr<Node> node,
                                          std::shared_ptr<Node> goal);
  ```
  Returns a vector of successor nodes for a given node.
  This function internally performs the forward rollout from the input `node`,
  then, for the successors that are valid, generates new nodes and assigns
  their corresponding `f` values.

**convert_node_list_to_path_tensor**
  ```cpp
  torch::Tensor convert_node_list_to_path_tensor(std::vector<std::shared_ptr<Node>> node_list);
  ```
  Converts a list of nodes (the path) to a PyTorch tensor for output/visualization.

### **Required Members**
- `int max_level;` - The maximum number of resolution levels (used for multi-resolution search).

## Node Structure Requirements

Your environment must define a `Node` struct or class with the following members and methods:

### **Required Members**
- `float pose[n_dims];` // State vector (e.g., [x, y, ...])
- `float *intermediate_poses;` // (Optional) Intermediate states between parent and this node
- `float g, f;` // Cost-to-come and total cost
- `bool active;` // Whether the node is active in the search
- `int rank, level;` // Rank and resolution level
- `size_t hash;` // Hash value for fast lookup
- `std::vector<size_t> index;` // Multi-resolution indices
- `std::shared_ptr<Node> parent;` // Pointer to parent node

### **Required Methods**
- **Constructor**
  ```cpp
  Node(const float *pose_in, const float *intermediate_poses_,
       std::shared_ptr<Node> parent_in, float g_in,
       const float *resolution_, float *tolerance, int max_level,
       float division_factor, int timesteps);
  ```
  Initializes a node with the given state, parent, and other parameters.

- **Destructor**
  ```cpp
  ~Node();
  ```
  Frees any dynamically allocated memory (e.g., `intermediate_poses`).

## Node Comparison

You must also define a comparison functor for use in priority queues:

```cpp
struct NodePtrCompare {
    bool operator()(const std::shared_ptr<Node> &a,
                    const std::shared_ptr<Node> &b) const {
        return a->f > b->f; // min-heap: smaller f has higher priority
    }
```
};
```

## Example

See the files in this directory (e.g., `kinematic.h`, `kinodynamic.h`, `simple.h`) for concrete examples of how to implement these interfaces.

---

**Note:**
- All methods and members must match the signatures above for IGHAStar to work correctly.
- You may add additional methods or members as needed for your environment's logic.
